=pod

=head1 NAME

CPAN::Reporter - Adds CPAN Testers reporting to CPAN.pm

=head1 VERSION

version 1.2004

=head1 SYNOPSIS

From the CPAN shell:

  cpan> install Task::CPAN::Reporter
  cpan> reload cpan
  cpan> o conf init test_report

Installing L<Task::CPAN::Reporter> will pull in additional dependencies
that new CPAN Testers will need.

Advanced CPAN Testers with custom L<Test::Reporter::Transport> setups
may wish to install only CPAN::Reporter, which has fewer dependencies.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The CPAN Testers project captures and analyzes detailed results from building
and testing CPAN distributions on multiple operating systems and multiple
versions of Perl.  This provides valuable feedback to module authors and
potential users to identify bugs or platform compatibility issues and improves
the overall quality and value of CPAN.

One way individuals can contribute is to send a report for each module that
they test or install.  CPAN::Reporter is an add-on for the CPAN.pm module to
send the results of building and testing modules to the CPAN Testers project.
Full support for CPAN::Reporter is available in CPAN.pm as of version 1.92.

=for Pod::Coverage configure
grade_PL
grade_make
grade_test
record_command
test

=head1 GETTING STARTED

=head2 Installation

The first step in using CPAN::Reporter is to install it using whatever
version of CPAN.pm is already installed.  CPAN.pm will be upgraded as
a dependency if necessary.

  cpan> install CPAN::Reporter

If CPAN.pm was upgraded, it needs to be reloaded.

  cpan> reload cpan

=head2 Configuration

If upgrading from a very old version of CPAN.pm, users may be prompted to renew
their configuration settings, including the 'test_report' option to enable
CPAN::Reporter.

If not prompted automatically, users should manually initialize CPAN::Reporter
support.  After enabling CPAN::Reporter, CPAN.pm will automatically continue
with interactive configuration of CPAN::Reporter options.

  cpan> o conf init test_report

Users will need to enter an email address in one of the following formats:

  johndoe@example.com
  John Doe <johndoe@example.com>
  "John Q. Public" <johnqpublic@example.com>

Users that are new to CPAN::Reporter should accept the recommended values
for other configuration options.

Users will be prompted to create a I<Metabase profile> file that uniquely
identifies their test reports. See L</"The Metabase"> below for details.

After completing interactive configuration, be sure to commit (save) the CPAN
configuration changes.

  cpan> o conf commit

See L<CPAN::Reporter::Config> for advanced configuration settings.

=head3 The Metabase

CPAN::Reporter sends test reports to a server known as the Metabase.  This
requires an active Internet connection and a profile file.  To create the
profile, users will need to run C<<< metabase-profile >>> from a terminal window and
fill the information at the prompts. This will create a file called
C<<< metabase_id.json >>> in the current directory. That file should be moved to the
C<<< .cpanreporter >>> directory inside the user's home directory.

Users with an existing metabase profile file (e.g. from another machine),
should copy it into the C<<< .cpanreporter >>> directory instead of creating
a new one.  Profile files may be located outside the C<<< .cpanreporter >>>
directory by following instructions in L<CPAN::Reporter::Config>.

=head2 Using CPAN::Reporter

Once CPAN::Reporter is enabled and configured, test or install modules with
CPAN.pm as usual.

For example, to test the File::Marker module:

  cpan> test File::Marker

If a distribution's tests fail, users will be prompted to edit the report to
add additional information that might help the author understand the failure.

=head1 UNDERSTANDING TEST GRADES

CPAN::Reporter will assign one of the following grades to the report:

=over

=item *

C<<< pass >>> -- distribution built and tested correctly

=item *

C<<< fail >>> --  distribution failed to test correctly

=item *

C<<< unknown >>> -- distribution failed to build, had no test suite or outcome was
inconclusive

=item *

C<<< na >>> --- distribution is not applicable to this platform andE<sol>or
version of Perl

=back

In returning results of the test suite to CPAN.pm, "pass" and "unknown" are
considered successful attempts to "make test" or "Build test" and will not
prevent installation.  "fail" and "na" are considered to be failures and
CPAN.pm will not install unless forced.

An error from Makefile.PLE<sol>Build.PL or makeE<sol>Build will also be graded as
"unknown" and a failure will be signaled to CPAN.pm.

If prerequisites specified in C<<< Makefile.PL >>> or C<<< Build.PL >>> are not available,
no report will be generated and a failure will be signaled to CPAN.pm.

=head1 PRIVACY WARNING

CPAN::Reporter includes information in the test report about environment
variables and special Perl variables that could be affecting test results in
order to help module authors interpret the results of the tests.  This includes
information about paths, terminal, locale, userE<sol>group ID, installed toolchain
modules (e.g. ExtUtils::MakeMaker) and so on.

These have been intentionally limited to items that should not cause harmful
personal information to be revealed -- it does I<not> include your entire
environment.  Nevertheless, please do not use CPAN::Reporter if you are
concerned about the disclosure of this information as part of your test report.

Users wishing to review this information may choose to edit the report
prior to sending it.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature using the CPAN Request Tracker.
Bugs can be submitted through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org/Dist/Display.html?Queue=CPAN-Reporter>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a patch to an
existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired feature.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Information about CPAN::Testers:

=over

=item *

L<CPAN::Testers> -- overview of CPAN Testers architecture stack

=item *

L<http://www.cpantesters.org> -- project home with all reports

=item *

L<http://wiki.cpantesters.org> -- documentation and wiki

=back

Additional Documentation:

=over

=item *

L<CPAN::Reporter::Config> -- advanced configuration settings

=item *

L<CPAN::Reporter::FAQ> -- hints and tips

=back

=for :stopwords cpan testmatrix url annocpan anno bugtracker rt cpants kwalitee diff irc mailto metadata placeholders

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker
at L<http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=CPAN-Reporter>.
You will be notified automatically of any progress on your issue.

=head2 Source Code

This is open source software.  The code repository is available for
public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

L<https://github.com/dagolden/cpan-reporter>

  git clone https://github.com/dagolden/cpan-reporter.git

=head1 AUTHOR

David Golden <dagolden@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2006 by David Golden.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Apache License, Version 2.0, January 2004

